So if you're new to Connect, Connect is an enterprise publishing platform for
static and dynamic content that you're creating with R. So that can include
documents, presentations, dashboards, and Shiny applications, and basically
anything that you're producing in R. It is an on-premises application, so you run
this on your own server behind a firewall if you want, and you're going to host it
on your own equipment there. And the goal is really around sharing data science
artifacts that you produced inside your organization. So if this is new to you, I
would recommend actually that you check out the introductory webinar that Bill
referenced a moment ago. So we recorded this two weeks ago, the recording is
available online, as are the slides. And I'd recommend that you start there
because we're going to be building on some of the foundation that we laid a
couple weeks ago. So if you are new to Connect, you might want to start there
before you jump into some of these more advanced topics. But without any further
ado, let's go ahead and dive into some of the content that we want to cover today.
So my goal for today is really just to give you pointers to the different
tidbits that I think are important for you to know if you're going to be
managing RStudio Connect in a production environment. And so I won't go
into too much depth about a whole lot of these, but really I just kind of
want to give you links and pointers to the different things that you might be
interested in if you are responsible for managing a production environment with
RStudio Connect. So pardon me if I'm kind of flying through some of these topics,
but feel free to ask questions and we can come back and do a little more
detail on some of these things later. Or just check out the links once
we post them online and hopefully you can kind of find the
information that you need there with the links that I provide. So today I want to
cover first of all user management, then secondly the management of resources on
the server, and then lastly we'll talk a little bit about kind of the system
management and system security implications for the server. So let's
dive into user management to get started. So we covered this a bit last time so I
won't belabor this, but we have three different user roles on the system. The
first is an admin user who has all privileges on the server and they can
access and kind of manage anything that they need to, but irregular actions are
audited and I'll dive into what that means here in a moment. Below that there
would be a publisher who's someone that can upload or publish content onto the
server, and then lastly there's a viewer who's just a consumer of content and
can't author content that gets executed on the server. So let's talk a little bit
about what the experience of a Connect administrator looks like. So first of
all they have access to special admin only actions, and so for instance this
includes the admin tab, so if you're an admin on the user you're able to access
certain pages within the dashboard that other users aren't able to manage that
shows you things like metrics, you're able to manage users and things like
that, and then lastly you're able to customize some application settings that
other users aren't able to. So you can define vanity URLs for an application,
you can customize the run as argument for an application, and I'll show you
what all this means here in just a moment. But the trick is that you don't
get everything for free as an admin, and so some of these things you're going to
be able to just hop on and start changing. Other things you're going to
actually have to go out of your way to explicitly grant yourself permission to
things that you otherwise wouldn't have had permission to do. So let's, I think
that's probably best covered by just an example, so let's look at an example of
this. So first of all this is me logged in as an admin user on Connect.
And so you can see here that first of all I have this admin tab, and so that
takes me first and foremost to this metrics page where I'm able to view
information about the CPU and RAM usage across the server. I also have an audit
logs page here where I can view kind of different changes that have been taking
place on the server recently. And then lastly when I dive into particular
content, even though this is not authored by me, this is authored by someone else
and I don't have particular permissions on it, I am still able to go in and
define custom settings for this content. So for instance here I can define a
vanity URL. Let's take a look at kind of a more rich document here. So in this
case we have a schedule. I as an administrator, even though I don't have
special privileges on this document, I can go in and customize the schedule for
this content. I can define a vanity URL, change the run as user, etc. So I
as an admin have free privileges to be able to do some of these things. However
if you look at something like a document here that's private, so here I'm logged
in as a different user, this is the publisher user, and you can see that I
for this content here I've defined it to only be visible to myself. So this means
that the admin user should not freely have access to this content. This is
sensitive content that the admin shouldn't be able to see. And indeed if I
go as the admin and I go to look at that content, this is the view that I get. So
you can see that I'm still able to manage the settings for that content
here, but I do not have free access to be able to view that content. And so this is
kind of what we're talking about when we say the admin has the privileges to do
whatever they need to do on the server, but they don't get everything for free.
So I am not able to view this content, although I can go in and I can add
myself as a publisher or as a viewer because I'm able to manage the settings
on this content, and at that point I would be able to view the content. And so
the trick here is that all of this though is managed when you make these
explicit actions to add or remove yourself to a particular bit of content,
all of those actions are going to be captured in the audit log that I
referenced earlier. So when I go look at the audit log you can see here that the
admin user assigned themselves as an owner as a collaborator on this app and
then they remove themselves as an owner as a collaborator on this app. So now while I am
able to do everything and navigate whatever I need to cover to be able to
manage the server, anytime I take those explicit options of kind of going out of
my way to take special privileges on an application, that's going to be captured
in the audit log and that's kind of the balance that we try to strike here with
an admin. Lastly, if you've missed this in our latest release, the 1.441 release, we
also do have the ability to download the source code for content. And again
that's only available to users that are explicitly granted
collaborator privileges. So I as an admin do not get free access to source
codes published on the server, however if I add myself as a collaborator then I am
able to download the source code for an application. So this is kind of the
balance that we tried to strike with an admin but I think it's important if
you're going to be managing a Connect server in production that you kind of
understand what the privileges of an admin actually encapsulate and what you
get for free and what you don't. So next we'll just kind of move on and a lot of
these things I'm just going to cover in rapid fire, but the next one that I
wanted to cover is the default user role. So this is the setting that's managed in
the authorization section under the default user role setting and this is
basically the role that fresh users should take when they sign on to the
server. The default right now is publisher, which means that when a user
signs up on your server or when they you know log in using whatever
authentication protocol you're using, that user is going to become a publisher
on the server, they're going to have access to publish new source code. If you
want to change that, if you want to limit that so that default so that new users
coming into the server are just viewers, you can change this configuration
setting here and make that a viewer. And this is actually subject to change, we've
considered actually making the default viewer and so in which case if you
wanted the default to be a publisher you could of course override that here.
Another tool that you should be aware of if you're managing Connect is the user
manager command line interface and this is a root only command line interface
that allows you to interact with Connect in kind of a batch way. And so
right now there's kind of a limited subset of what you can do with this
command but we envision this growing over time to capture more of the
interactions that you might want to take within Connect. So right now one
restriction is that the server actually does need to be stopped in order for you
for you to use the command line interface here and that that's a
restriction that may be lifted here in the coming months. But right now you can
access the tool at this location, optr-studio-connect-bin-user-manager and
then you can run commands such as list to list all the users in the server, you
can run alter to change a user for instance promoting a viewer to a
publisher or promoting a publisher to an admin user, and you can also actually
dump the audit logs even in the CSV format here. So if you wanted to navigate
and browse the audit logs on your own time or using your own tooling you could
do that here using this user manager tool. So something you should be aware of
and you can view all the documents in the admin guide for what different
endpoints are available in this command. Next there's an idea of user locking in
the server that you should be familiar with. So as of the time of this
recording in early 2017 we don't have a notion of user deletion and the reason
for that is that there are a lot of open questions around what should you do with
a user who's deleted, what should you do with their content, should you migrate it
to another user, should you keep it alive on the server, or should you get rid of
it. So until we settle some of those questions right now we've kind of
settled on this compromise of user locking. So if you for instance have an
employee leave the company and you don't want them to have access to the
server anymore you can lock their account which forbids any further login
or interaction on the system, they can't publish updates or new content to the
server, and they also don't count against your license so they're not going to
count as a named user, they're not going to take up the seat for your license
when they're locked. And also you should be aware that you can rename users and
so if your goal is just to get rid of a user who's taking up a username that you
want you can certainly just change the username for that user and lock it and
then create a new user account with the username that you desire. So that's a bit
about user management and we can transition into resource management now
which is a bit more of a complex topic. So one of the most common questions that
we get around Connect is the idea of resource budgeting or how large should
my server be, and the problem or the difficulty in answering this question is
that the requirements here almost depend entirely on what your users are
deploying. So if you just have a couple of simple documents that you know are a
couple of simple dashboards that are updated once a day that people are going
to access on your Connect server, you could probably get away with some
running this on you know something like very very small even you know a Raspberry
Pi could probably handle that kind of workload. However if you're doing you
know very intensive shiny applications that are doing you know genomic analysis
on multiple gigabytes of data, then your server requirements are going to be much
much larger. And so ideally if you if you have the luxury of being in a
virtualized environment where you can kind of scale up or down a server that
would probably be your best bet. But otherwise if not you can kind of run a
proof of concept and see what the hardware requirements are given the
applications and the types of work that your that your users are publishing to
the server, and that's really the best way to kind of get a feel for what your
requirements should be in terms of hardware for the server. So in terms of
the philosophy of Connect, on-demand requests are largely what we're
servicing when when requests are coming in, and those are just going to be
service-best efforts. So you know as a request comes in for a shiny application
we're going to do our best to spin up that shiny application and hope that
there's enough memory available on the server. So but there are some knobs and
some tuning that you can do to cap the resource requirements available to
particular applications or different different use cases. So first of all
that around shiny there's there's a notion of shiny scaling. So you can scale
shiny applications and connect to multiple processes. So if you're not
aware R is single-threaded and connect can actually load balance a particular
application across multiple independent R processes running that same
application. And so this is what's managed here in the performance tab on a
shiny app. So as an admin you can go in and you can override particular
performance settings for an application and set for instance the number of max
processes, how many processes you know under the heaviest load that you might
be willing to run for this application. And then down at the bottom here you can
see kind of some of the scaling parameters around how many connections
should be supported per process. And then the load factor is basically how
quickly do you want to ramp up from the minimum number of processes to the
maximum number of processes as load increases. The minimum number of
processes as the name implies is the is going to guarantee that in processes are
running for this application at all times. The right answer for this for
almost all applications is zero. However if you have an application that takes a
really long time to start up and you don't want a user hitting it having to
wait multiple seconds or even minutes for the shiny